“Hypertext” is a system for linking electronic documents. 
In an HTML document, hypertext is words, images, videos, etc. 
that link to other HTML documents. 
When a user selects the hypertext, the linked document is retrieved and displayed on the computer screen.

"Markup" is the action of adding instructions to a document to control the format, style, 
and appearance of the content of the document. 
This applies to physical printed documents as well as to electronic documents that are displayed on a computer screen.

A markup language is a type of programming language that is used to specify markup instructions for the data in a document. 
In other words, markup instructions aren’t the data in the document; they are data about the data in the document.

Parse
Parse means to break something up into its parts and analyze it. 
In computing, it means that the program code is analyzed and read.

Anatomy of HTML
Hypertext Markup Language (HTML) is used to instruct browsers on how to present content to the user’s screen. 
The open and closed tags used in HTML denote document elements. Each element works together to form a web document, 
and a web browser such as Chrome or Firefox is required to parse and display the HTML as intended by the author.

Elements
The tags and the code written between them are called “elements.”

Creating an Element
To define an element on the HTML document, we need to use an opening and closing tag.

HTML Structure
The HTML code at the top of most webpages is the <!DOCTYPE html> declaration.

This is an instruction to the browser that states the version of HTML being used. 
As of 2019, HTML5 is the latest version. In the HTML document, 
the code <!DOCTYPE html> tells the browser that the code that follows is written in HTML5. 

Please note that in HTML5 there is no need to specify the version number explicitly. 
Also, the <!DOCTYPE html> declaration is not a tag (note there is no closing tag 
[</>])– it is an instruction to the browser as to what version of HTML to use, 
rather than a tag used to affect content on the web page.

There are different doctype declarations for earlier versions of HTML and for other web development languages.
You should always include the <!DOCTYPE html> declaration at the top of all HTML code.


Using Elements to Create an HTML Page
The first tag contained in an HTML document is the <html> tag and at the end of 
the document you end it with the closing html tag </html>. 
These tags are required to produce a web page – the text and markup tags 
placed between the <html> and </html> tags form the overall web page.

Body and Title Elements
The <body> element is used to house all of the content (text, images, links, videos, etc.) in an HTML document. 
The body of an HTML document is contained within the <body> and </body> tags.

CLI
CLI stands for command-line interface. An interface is a device or program that enables a user to communicate with a computer. 
The command line is an interface where you can type commands into a computer. The command line allows you to perform 
many actions, including: moving files, deleting files, copying files, starting computer programs, etc. 
While these actions are typically done with a mouse, they can also be handled by typing words into a command line.


Underscores and Spaces
The underscore symbol “_” is a short horizontal line.

It is a common practice of developers to use _ (underscores) and - (dashes) to represent spaces in file names. 
Why is that? Here are some reasons:

1. In some original command-line interfaces, spaces were represented by underscores or dashes. 
Some CLIs and operating systems wouldn’t even allow the use of spaces in file names and doing so would cause errors. .

2. In URLs, spaces are represented with the characters “%20”. 
This is because the space character is character number 20 in the ASCII character encoding system. 
Using underscores can result in a cleaner address. 
For example: learncodinganywhere.com/the%20tech%20academy versus learncodinganywhere.com/the_tech_academy.

Character Encoding
Character encoding: This is a system where numbers, letters, etc. are represented by codes. 
The codes used are in a form that computers can easily understand. 
The system used for each type of code depends on how that code is going to be used.

Character Sets
In HTML (and all coding) you will be dealing with characters.
In the written form of a language, a character is a written symbol that represents one 
of the various parts of that language – the various letters, punctuation marks and symbols that are used to 
lay out that language in written form. As an example, the English sentence “Speed limit 65 MPH!” makes use of upper-case letters 
such as “S” and “M”, lower-case letters such as “p” and “t”, punctuation marks such as “ “ (a space between characters) 
and “!”, and the numbers “6” and “5”.

UTF
If you look closely at some URLs, you may see the characters “UTF”.

“UTF” stands for “Unicode Transformation Format.” 
UTF is a character encoding format that is able to utilize all of the code points in Unicode.
This is needed to allow for the encoding of languages other than English.


UTF-16
UTF-16 is another popular Unicode encoding.

UTF-8 is used far more on the web – UTF-16 is used by less than 0.01% of web pages. 
The main reason UTF-16 is used less in websites is due to the fact that the official documentation on 
HTML 5 strongly discourages the use of UTF-16 for websites, 
mainly because it wasn’t originally created with web use in mind (that was left for UTF-8) and 
it is considered less secure for online use.

UTF-16 is used by Microsoft Windows and Mac OS X's file systems. It’s also used in the programming language Java.

UTF-16 is capable of utilizing all 1,112,064 code points of Unicode.


Universal Coded Character Set (UCS)
UCS is a standard set of characters defined by the International Organization for Standardization (ISO) – 
an organization composed of representatives from various standards organizations across the world. 
The ISO exists to monitor and promote international industrial and commercial standards.


Decoding
Have you ever opened a file and the document was displayed incorrectly?
In order to properly display characters when opening a file, a program (like a text editor) 
must know which encoding system was used.
In most browsers and programs, you can choose which encoding system to use.
You can also typically specify the encoding type when saving a file.
One of the encoding options for Notepad documents is UTF-8

Using Encoding as a Developer
As a developer, you can assign which encoding system you’re using.

The default encoding system for HTML5 is UTF-8.








































































