Metadata
“Meta” comes from the word “beyond”.

Metadata is data that gives data about, or describes, other data. Simply put, metadata means: data about data.
In HTML, the <meta> tag is usually used to convey data to browsers and search engines that isn’t displayed to the user.

Meta elements can be used to describe pages, provide keywords to help categorize 
the type of information in the content of the page, note the author of the document, and more.

Head Elements
The <head> element is a container for metadata pertaining to the HTML document itself, 
and should be placed between the opening <html> tag and the opening <body> tag.

Head elements can contain:

Titles
Scripts (a computer program that is to be run by the browser)
File attachments (such as CSS files, JavaScript files or even custom fonts)
Character encoding
Meta data

The head element is typically placed near the top of an HTML file.


Embedded Content
To embed means to fix something inside another thing. 
Content from another source that is included as part of a page is referred to as “embedded content”. 
This typically refers to content that exists on another website.

Body Elements
The content placed between <body> and </body> tags makes up most of the content on the page. 
It consists of nearly anything the developer can dream of, such as: 
embedded video, images, text, animation, tables of data, advertisements, even music. 
The sky’s the limit, but within the body tag is where you'll place it.


The Basic HTML Template
The code we just laid out is actually the recommended template for 
all HTML web pages (meaning, regardless of what you add to the webpage, start with that code). 

Syntax
Every spoken language has a general set of rules for how words and sentences should be structured. 
These rules are known as the syntax of that particular language.
In programming languages, syntax serves the same purpose.

Syntax is the rules you must follow when writing computer programs. 
Each language has its own syntax. 
Failing to use the syntax of a particular language correctly can mean that 
whatever program you are designing will not work at all.

For example: If a computer language required you write “cmd:” (meaning “command”) at the beginning of each instruction,
that would be part of the syntax of that language. And if you didn’t write “cmd:” at the beginning of an instruction, 
the computer would not be able to process and execute the instruction because you violated syntax.

Headings 
Heading elements allow for placement of heads (titles) of sections. 
They’re broken into a series of graduated sizes: <h1> through <h6>.

Footer
The <footer> tag defines a footer for a document or section.

Main Element
The HTML <main> element represents the most important content of the <body> of a document or portion of a document. 
It consists of content that is directly related to or expands upon the central topic of a document.

Attributes
An attribute is a word or phrase used inside an element’s opening tag that controls the element’s behavior.

Id Attribute
“Id” is short for “identification”. One of the most popular attributes is the id attribute.

The id attribute specifies a unique name for an HTML element.

Class Attribute
Another one of the most popular HTML attributes is the class attribute. 
This is similar to but different than the id attribute.

Anchor Tags
The anchor <a> element is the HTML code used to create a link to another page. 
It instructs the browser to display content from another document (typically a web page).

Hypertext Reference
There are two kinds of href attributes:

Implicit
Explicit
In English, “implicit” means “implied, though not plainly stated”. 
And “explicit” means “stated clearly and in detail”.

Nav
The <nav> tag defines a set of navigation links. 
Navigation links are typically included on nav bars (a rectangular strip that includes links to the main pages on a website).

Testing Code
It is wise to regularly test your code as you’re writing it.
